User Experience (UX) refers to a person's emotions and attitudes about using a particular product,
system or service. It includes the practical, experiential, affective, meaningful and valuable aspects
of human–computer interaction and product ownership
The user interface (UI), in the industrial design field of human–computer interaction, is the space
where interactions between humans and machines occur. The goal of this interaction is to allow
effective operation and control of the machine from the human end, whilst the machine
simultaneously feeds back information that aids the operators' decision-making process. Examples
of this broad concept of user interfaces include the interactive aspects of computer operating
systems, hand tools, heavy machinery operator controls, and process controls.
UX Makes Interfaces Useful, UI Makes Interfaces
Beautiful
Once the user flows and wireframes are prototyped and tested, it’s the UI designer’s role to make
them aesthetically pleasing. This includes choosing a color scheme and typography that will be both
attractive and simple to use. However, color choices, typography and interactions are not based on
the designer’s personal preference but rather on clearly articulated reasons specific to the personas
developed by the UX designers. With these, UI designers implement a visual hierarchy that will serve
as a guide to users, letting them know what to do and when to do it, in order to meet their
objectives.
UX Helps Users Accomplish Goals, UI Makes Emotional
Connections
UX Design Is Done First, UI Design Is Done
Second…(Sometimes)
UX Is Employed Across Products, Interfaces And
Services, UI Only Pertains To Interfaces
 UX design helps users accomplish meaningful tasks across platforms and services.
 UI design makes compelling and aesthetically pleasing interfaces that connect with
humans.
User research focuses on understanding user behaviors, needs, and motivations through
observation techniques, task analysis, and other feedback methodologies.[1] This field of
research aims at improving the usability of products by incorporating experimental and
observational research[2] methods to guide the design, development, and refinement of a
product. User researchers often work alongside designers, engineers, and programmers in
all stages of product creation and idealization.
Information architecture (IA) is a science of organizing and structuring content of the
websites, web and mobile applications, and social media software
Information architecture aims at organizing content so that users would easily adjust to the
functionality of the product and could find everything they need without big effort. The
content structure depends on various factors. First of all, IA experts consider the specifics of
the target audience needs because IA puts user satisfaction as a priority. Also, the structure
depends on the type of the product and the offers companies have. For example, if we
compare a retail website and a blog, we’ll see two absolutely different structures both
efficient for accomplishing certain objectives. Information architecture has become the
fundamental study in many spheres including design and software development.
Low fidelity wire frame is one of the strongest and quickest means of rapid prototyping and
proposing a design solution. Strongest because it can be achieved using minimal resources
(just a pen and paper may suffice) and rapid because it mainly involves sketching.
High fidelity on the other hand deals with facts like attention to details. For eg. Deciding the
detailed interactions state of a particular design element, color palette, typography,
iconography, micro interactions etc.
Typically during the inception of the project low fidelity is the way to go by performing
whiteboarding activities and paper sketches to flush out the critical customer journeys and
incorporate aggressive feedback incase of agile whereas high fidelity would be an option
when you are very confident that the design solution would have relatively less iterations and
would be stable
KEYWORDS
Breadcrumbs are a navigation trail that show users where they have been on your website. These
digital bits link back to previous pages and can be represented by text, glyphs or images. Often this
navigation will appear at the top of a page. (Even your desktop computer uses breadcrumbs to tell
you how you have navigated through specific folders to get to a current location.)
Engaged time
the amount of time a user spends on a specific page – you can determine what users want from your
site.
 Information architecture is defining and designing around an information model or
concept.
 Interaction design is creating a structure and pattern of behaviors or actions for a product
and its users.
 Experience design is the process of considering how a design will work across multiple
platforms in the design process
Eyetracking uses tools (such as glasses or other eye devices) to record where users look first and
subsequently when in contact with a website or other visual.
Geolocation Indicator
Geolocation services are especially popular on mobile applications and for mapping services.
Key Performance Indicators measure the usability of a website or digital design. KPIs look at current
usability, trends over time and comparisons with competitors.
An observational study is conducted with actual users to see how they act in relationship to your
design. What are the facial expressions of users? What type of body language do you see? Is the
overall posture positive or negative with users are in contact with your site?
Usability testing helps you evaluate a site by having actual users interact with it. This is typically done
in a lab setting, although that is not always the case.
Web 2.0 is defined by any dynamic website or page that is designed to benefit the user. While the
term is not that new, it defines the transition from early static websites to usable interfaces
A widget is simply an on-screen element that users interact with
A heuristic technique (/hjʊəˈrɪstɪk/; Ancient Greek: εὑρίσκω, "find" or "discover"), often
called simply a heuristic, is any approach to problem solving, learning, or discovery that
employs a practical method, not guaranteed to be optimal, perfect, logical, or rational, but
instead sufficient for reaching an immediate goal. Where finding an optimal solution is
impossible or impractical, heuristic methods can be used to speed up the process of finding
a satisfactory solution. Heuristics can be mental shortcuts that ease the cognitive load of
making a decision. Examples that employ heuristics include using a rule of thumb, an
educated guess, an intuitive judgment, a guesstimate, stereotyping, profiling, or common
sense.
